Try It! Change Pages Interactively

A PDF copy of all of this lesson's Try It exercises can be downloaded from the Resources tab.

For this exercise, you will be building off of your previous Pen. Open your Pen and “fork” it by clicking “Fork” at the top-bar Codepen menu. This creates an exact duplicate of your Pen which you can now edit while still keeping the original version of your Pen.

Style divs background-color using classes
From your last Pen, you should have styled your divs using IDs and CSS. If you had styled the background-color in the CSS for the IDs, remove this background coloring code.
Next, add a different class to each of your divs.
Now, style the background-color of each of your divs by styling the classes in the CSS pane.
Need help? See the screenshot below of an example Pen, where classes are used to color the background of each div.


Change Div Background Color with Buttons
1. In the CSS pane, style an extra 1-2 new classes, giving the classes a new background-color you have not yet used in your Pen.

2. In the JS pane, create a new function, changeColor().

Have the function access each div by the div’s ID. For each div, create a variable that gets that div by using the document.getElementById(“divID”) method.
Change each div’s class. Use the .className property to change the class for each div element. Change each div’s class so that the background-color changes for each div.
3. In the HTML pane, update your button. Change the value of your input element to “Change Color” and have the button call the changeColor() function when the button is clicked.

Need help? Review the Changing Pages Interactively video, which walks through the above steps. Also, see the following screenshot of an example Pen.


Change Div Text Content with Buttons
1. In the HTML pane, add a new button. Make the input’s value “Change Text”. Don’t worry about the event handler (e.g., onclick) yet.

2. In the JS pane, create a new function changeText(). This function should:

Access each div element by its ID;
Use the .innerHTML method to change the text to something new inside each div.
3. In the HTML pane, have your “Change Text” button call the changeText() function.

Need help? Review the Changing Pages Interactively video and see the below example Pen. If this material is still not making sense to you, seek help from your fellow learners in the forums!


Extra Challenge!
Now try changing other aspects of the web page when a button is clicked. Consider:

Changing the div with the .style.color property
Changing the value attribute of a button